Name: Mansi Sharadkumar Patil
PRN: 2020BTEIT00068
Subject: Computer Algorithm

Topic: Image Compression Using Vector Quantization and Encoding using Huffman Encoding


Aim: To use the Vector Quantization Algorithm to compressed an 128x128 px image.
    Also get the Huffman code of the inputed image using Huffman Encoding Algorithm.


First an introduction to my file structure:

1) Huffman folder: 
      i) It consist of the huffman.c file which is the contains the C code of the Huffman Algorithm. It gives the encoded image and bits values after the execution.
      ii) It was referred from Geek for Geeks.
      iii) The folder also has a "gray.bmp" image which is used my grayscale image.
      iv) encode.txt has the binary encoded image of the "gray.bmp" inside it.
      v) Huffman tree path for all the bits present inside the "gray.bmp" (commonly ranges from 0-254) is stored in huffman_codes.txt.

2) Images Folder:
      i) It has two images "gray.bmp" (original and uncompressed) and "gray_compressed.bmp" (original and commpressed).
      ii) Properties of "gray.bmp" : 
                        Dimensions: 128x128 px
                        Size: 17 kB

      iii) Properties of "gray_compressed.bmp" :
                        Dimensions: 131x33 px 
                        Size:9 kB

3) VQ folder: 
      i) This folder has the Vector Quantization Algorithm in it which is C++ language.
      ii) The source code is referred from a git repository.
      iii) Source.cpp provides two clones of the original image in compressed formed.

Performance: 

      Vector Quantization Algorithm: 

            By calculating the Compression Ratio of the image: 

                              compression ratio = (uncompressed image size / compressed image size)
                                                = (17 / 9)
                                                =  1.88 

            Thus VQ is one of the lossy compression algorithms and which is clearly visible by looking the compression ratio.

      Huffman Encoding Algorithm:   

            The encoding performance for the Huffman is on the number of various bits present inside the image.

            The general Time Complexity of the algorithm is O(nlogn), where n is number of different nodes present inside the Huffman tree.
 